WIMEA System will enable one accomplish one of the following tasks.
           1. Data Entry 
Both the Observer and Manager will be able to enter data into the system. Data entry will differ by method any one will use to enter data into the system. There will be 3 methods of Physic Data Entry according to the method one will find flexible to use and these include:
•	Web Data Entry: User will have to be connected to Internet to be able to enter data into the system.
•	Desktop Entry: Even without data connection a user will be able to input data into the system. But once an internet connectivity has been established the system will have to synchronise the data that was entered by the user without data connection and thereafter flush out the data that was entered using the Desktop method.
•	 Mobile Entry: Require data connectivity and once a user wants to enter data into the system the user will have to send this data from a geographical area (longitude and latitude coordinates) that tally with the GPRS location of the station where he has collected the data from.

       2.Automatic Data Entry:
Automatic Weather Stations (Devices) send data to the system.

       3.Enter Meta Data Into The System: 
Metadata refers to information about stations, elements, instruments, the units that will be used to measure the elements and other objects in the system. 
Station information must be in place before data for that station can be added. We anticipate this information being added by the station Manager. 
     
     4.View Data Analysis and Export Data: 
Manager will be able to use the system to be able to come up with better analysis on the information that has been collected through using the reports that the system can generate.
and they  will be able to export the data from the system into different formats like excel, csv.


     5.Scan And Upload Previous Documents: 
Only users who are using the Web Data Entry Method will be able to scan all previous documents concerning weather and thereafter upload (Achieve) the Scanned document(s).
Before uploading the Scanned documents they will be required to enter some information concerning the scanned document they want to upload. 
This information may include things like the date of the scanned documents when entered. 

     6.Enter Meta Data Into The System: 
Metadata refers to information about stations, elements, instruments, the units that will be used to measure the elements and other objects in the system. 
Station information must be in place before data for that station can be added. We anticipate this information being added by the station Manager. 
    
    7.Send  Warning SMS: 
 This will be in the form of remainder(warning) SMS which will depend upon the information the Manager input into the system will entering the meta data about an instrument at a particular station. 
 This functionality will only be utilize if the manger input data like for an instrument validity to be at some certain date, so the system will automate send a message informing the Manager at the instrument at such station its due date is almost.
